h1. echocat Velma

...is a Master-Password protected password safe for your maven passwords. These passwords are normally stored in @.m2/settings.xml@ and could be protected by a master password in @.m2/settings-security.xml@. But this way is still dangerous because every person with access to your computer has access to your Master-Password.

Velma solve this problem because it replaces the stored password on disk with a redirection to itself. In every moment if someone tries to access your passwords in @.m2/settings.xml@ Velma will recieve a request and will prompt you for the input of your Master-Password in a dedicated dialog.

h1. Setup

h2. Unix like Systems

bc. # 1. Create a directory for velma
mkdir -p ~/opt/velma
# 2. Change into the new directory
cd ~/opt/velma
# 3. Download the latest release
wget https://repo.echocat.org/velma-releases/org/echocat/velma/[RELEASE]/velma-[RELEASE]-distribution.tar.gz
# 4. Extract the content 
tar -xzf velma-*-distribution.tar.gz
# 5. Run it
~/opt/velma/bin/velma

Hint: It is a good choice to add Velma to init scripts of your unix system to ensure that you never forget it. Velma have a maximum memory usage of 10M - no problem I hope.

h2. Windows Systems

# Download the "Latest zip":https://repo.echocat.org/velma-releases/org/echocat/velma/[RELEASE]/velma-[RELEASE]-distribution.zip
# Extract the content to @%USERPROFILE%\Program Files\velma@
# Open @%USERPROFILE%\Program Files\velma\bin@ in the Explorer
# Create a shortcut on Desktop, Taskbar or Startmenu for @velma.exe@ (for 32bit Windows) or for @velma64.exe@ (for 64bit Windows).

Hint: It is a good choice to add Velma to _Startup_ of Windows to ensure that you never forget it. Velma have a maximum memory usage of 10M - no problem I hope.

h2. Requirements

Java 1.7 or newer: "Get the latest version.":http://java.com/download/index.jsp

h1. Usage

h2. First run

If the Velma starts the first time, it will request the enter of your master password. You can choose whatever you want, but remember: This is the password which will protect all your other passwords. Hint: Choose a password which is a passphrase; with a minimum length of 12 characters.

h2. Encrypt a password

h3. Store password without encryption

Normally you have a @.m2/settings.xml@ like this:

bc. <settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">
   ...
   <servers>
      <server>
         <id>myServer</id>
         <username>myUsername</username>
         <password>myPassword</password>
      </server>
   </servers>
   ...
</settings>

h3. Standard encryption method

It is possible to encrypt the passwords by using a master password in @.m2/settings-security.xml@. In this case your @settings.xml@ could be:

bc. <settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">
   ...
   <servers>
      <server>
         <id>myServer</id>
         <username>myUsername</username>
         <password>{COQLCE6DU6GtcS5P=}</password>
      </server>
   </servers>
   ...
</settings>

And your @settings-security.xml@:

bc. <settingsSecurity>
   <master>{jSMOWnoPFgsHVpMvz5VrIt5kRbzGpI8u+9EF1iFQyJQ=}</master>
</settingsSecurity>

"This is the default maven encryption pattern.":http://maven.apache.org/guides/mini/guide-encryption.html

h3. Velma encryption

# Right-Click on the Velma-SystrayIcon and choose _Encrypt password_.
# Enter your master password.
# In the following dialog (_Encrypt password_) enter the plain password for the target server twice.
# Hit _Copy to clipboard and close_. The encrypted password is now stored in your system clipboard.
# Now open your @.m2/settings.xml@ and put your encrypted password in @<password>...</password>@ tag for the target server.

_You are not required to modify @.m2/settings-security.xml@. This is automatically done by Velma._

The result @.m2/settings.xml@ are like the as the _Standard encryption method_ but your @.m2/settings-security.xml@ is different and *does not contain your master password*.

h1. FAQ

h2. What to do if I want to choose my master password?

# Right-Click on the Velma-SystrayIcon and choose _Change master password_.
# Enter your current master password.
# Enter your new master password twice.
# Now you are required to reencrypt all your passwords with the _Encrypt password_ util.
Sorry but we planned to change this passwords automatically in the future if you change your master password. But currently you are required you do this manually for all servers.

h2. I lost my master password

This is bat! All your encrypted passwords are lost.

But you could delete @.m2/velma.properties@, choose a new master password and reencrypt all your passwords.

h1. Secrets

h2. Configuration

Velma store all its information in @.m2/velma.properites@.

It is a good choice to backup always @.m2/settings.xml@ with @.m2/velma.properties@.

h2. How maven get the master password?

Velma created at every start a new @.m2/settings-security.xml@ with a content like this:

bc. <settingsSecurity>
  <relocation>http://localhost:56276/3ee63610-adf1-4169-a029-5f96c575800f/settings-security.xml</relocation>
</settingsSecurity>

Velma now starts a little webserver that listen to @localhost:<port>@ and only answer questions to the specified URL. If another URL is requested or the user hit in the _Master-Password request dialog_ the button _Fake response_ the result is also a valid master password - but an invalid one.

h1. License

echocat Velma is licensed under "MPL 2.0":http://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
